[Music]
Hello, story script and story board are
some of the words that are
often used while making videos.
Today we will know what is the difference between all these
and what is their use in making our videos.
But before we
talk about the story script and story board of the video, it is
very important for you to know for whom you are making your video,
who is the audience watching it and what is the purpose behind making it,
as well as how much do people already know about this topic
and
what more information do we want to give them with the help of this video.
Let's first talk about the story
board. It is
very important to have a story board to make any video, but
you must be thinking what is this story board
and how to make it. We are
stuck, right? Not at all confused, it is very easy to do. To
make a story board for a video,
first of all its story is worked upon. The
story is the same as you would have
heard from your grandmother in your childhood. To
write a story, first a topic is chosen,
after that a story is written on the same topic. Keep in
mind that the story should be
written in such a way that the viewers get
interested in it.  Also, the story remains interesting and at the same time they also get to learn something
[Music] Have you
seen how easy it is to write a story? There are
two ways of writing a story. The first is in which the
events are shown sequentially one after the other. For
example, the entire process from
sowing a crop or preparing the field to its
harvesting and selling in the market is
shown sequentially one after the other. And the second is in which the
events shown are based on the writer's imagination.
Like any future film,
a story is the life of the film. So,
while writing a story, definitely use the formula of story arc.
In the story arc,
we introduce the audience to the subject of the story at the beginning of our story
and then
in the middle part of the story, we
give all the information related to it in detail.
In the end, we tell what is the conclusion of the story or
what message you want to give through your story.
Also, it should also be
kept in mind that people should
also have an emotional connection with the story. For this, the
characters of the story can be selected from the area in which the
video is to be shown.
This will help people understand the story in a better way.
After the story is completed, the next
task is to convert it into a script. Here we have to show the
dialogues or conversations of the character.
should be written in simple words Always write dialogues in easy and
short sentences so that it is
easy for your character to speak and the audience to understand Everything is written in a script, from the actor's
dialogue to the visuals of that video
A
good script only gives the right direction to the video,
so while writing the script,
definitely take help from your team members This makes the
script even better
[Music]
So today you learned from this video that there is
knowledge in a story and script
In the next part we will see
what a story board is and
how to convert a story into a script and story board
Thank you
[Music]